.TH xdusage 1  "July 2012" "version %VER%" "XD Usage Command"
.SH NAME
xdusage- displays usage information for XSEDE projects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xdusage
[
.BI -p " project"
] [
.BI -r " resource"
] [
.BI -u " username|Lastname"
] 
.if n .ti +0.8i
[
.BI -up " portal-user"
] [
.BI -a
] [
.BI -j
] [
.BI -ja
] [
.BI -pa
] 
.if n .ti +0.8i
.if t .ti +0.8i
[
.BI -ip
] [
.BI -ia
] [
.BI -zp
] [
.BI -za
] 
] [
.BI -nc
] 
.if n .ti +0.8i
.if t .ti +0.8i
[
.BI -s " start-date"
] [
.BI -e " end-date"
] [
.B -V
] [
.B -h
] 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xdusage
displays project and user account usage information for XSEDE projects.
Information includes the usage, allocation, status, and dates of projects,
as well as user account usage and status and,
optionally, job-level information.
.PP
.I xdusage
with no options displays summary project and account usage information for the current user.
By default, only unexpired projects are reported.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.BI -p " project"
display usage for the project(s) specified.
See PROJECTS below.
.TP
.BI -r " resource"
Limit the output to allocations on the resource(s) specified.
See ALLOCATIONS below.
.TP
.BI -u " username|Lastname"
Limit the output to usage for the user(s) specified (either by their username on the local machine or by their last name).
See USERS below.
.TP
.BI -up " portal-user"
Limit the output to usage for the user(s) specified by their portal login.
See USERS below.
.TP
.B -a
display usage for all user accounts. (This option is ignored with -u and -up)
.TP
.B -j 
display job data (as well as refunds, etc).
.TP
.B -ja
show additional job attributes. (This option is ignored unless -j is specified)
.TP
.B -pa 
show previous allocation. (This option is ignored with -s and -e)
See ALLOCATIONS below.
.TP
.B -ip 
suppress inactive projects.
.TP
.B -ia
suppress inactive accounts.
.TP
.B -zp
suppress projects with zero usage.
.TP
.B -za
suppress user accounts with zero usage.
.TP
.B -nc
do not use commas in the reported usage values.
.TP
.BI -s " start-date"
.TP
.BI -e " end-date"
display usage for the period from
.I start-date
through
.I end-date.
If
.B -e
is specified, 
.B -s
must also be specfied.
If 
.B -s
is specified, but
.B -e
is not specified, today is used for 
.B -e.
Various formats of date can be used (see DATES below).
.TP
.B -V
display version information.
.TP
.B -h
display brief help on command usage.

.SH PROJECTS
Projects, specified by
.BR -p ,
are of the form TG-XXXXXXXXX, or just XXXXXXXX.
If
.B -p
is not specified, only those projects with non-expired allocations are reported.
If
.B -p
is specified, then the latest allocation for those projects are reported (unless
.B -pa
is specified, and then the allocation just prior to the latest is reported). 

Mutiple projects can be specified by separating them with commas or with multiple
.B -p
options:

.IP
xdusage -p TG-XXXXXXX,TG-YYYYYYY -p ZZZZZZZZ

.PP
A percent sign (%) can be used as a wildcard:

.IP
xdusage -p TG-XX%

.PP
NOTE: only projects that you have an account on will be reported. 
If you specify a project you are not on, xdusage will not show it.

.SH ALLOCATIONS
Projects have allocations on one or more resources.
There may be more than one allocation for a given project on a given resource.
xdusage will show the latest allocation for each resource on a project, unless the
.B -pa
option is specfied, then the allocation previous to the latest will be show. 
.PP
If you wish to only see allocations on specific resources, use the 
.B -r
option:
.IP
xdusage -r forge.ncsa.teragrid
.PP
The resource name may be abbreviated
.IP
xdusage -r forge
.PP
Allocations may be inactive, either because they have expired or are out of funds.
If the
.B -p
option is not specified, then only allocations which are not expired will be shown (even if they are inactive)
If
.B -p
is used, then the latest allocations will be shown (even if they are expired or inactive)
.PP
If you wish to only see active allocations, use the
.B -ip
option.

.SH USERS
By default, xdusage will only show your account usage.
If you want to see usage for all users on the projects, specify the
.B -a
option. If you want to only see usage for a specific user, specify the
.B -u
or
.B -up
options. 
The
.B -u
option requires either the username on the system you are running xdusage from, or the user's last name
(capitalized first letter). 
Alternatively, if you know the portal username for a user, you can use the
.B -up
option.
Mutiple users can be specified by separating the names with commas or with multiple 
.B -u
or
.B -up
options:

.IP
xdusage -u squinn,Shapiro -u Jones -up cpond

.PP
A percent sign (%) can be used as a wildcard:

.IP
xdusage -u S%

.SH DATES
The 
.B -s
and
.B -e
options support a variety of date formats.
Dates can be of the form YYYY-MM-DD (2012-01-15), MM/DD/YYYY (01/15/2012), M/D/YY (1/15/12).
They can also use month names: 15Jan2012, "Jan 15, 2012".
They can also be expressions: "1 week ago", "yesterday", "today", "5 months ago", "-12 days".

.SH AUTHOR
Michael Shapiro 

